>>Let's see if you can guess
the final city in my world tour.
Here we are over a
semipublic urban park.
I was drawn to this
place when I read
it had a small Egyptian
pyramid folly, nine
gates, and a fifth
generation watchman, who
lives in the diminutive
rotunda building right here.
Five generations of watchmen
living in a tiny pavilion
must be motivated to guard
something pretty interesting.
The informal layout and curving
walkways say English garden,
but having been immersed
in London, something bigger
popped out at me--
the shape of the park.
It closely matches the ancient
walls of the city of London.
This park was built by the
richest man in the country, who
was also a king's cousin.
He was a lover of all things
English and enemy of all things
royalist.
He ended up being beheaded like
so many others of his time.
Where are we?
If you guessed Paris,
you're correct.
We entered the City of
Light through the portal
of Parc Monceau, established
by Louis Philippe
II, Duke d'Orleans.
As you may have guessed,
the Duke of Orleans
was a Freemason.
He actually served
as grand master
of the governing body of French
Freemasonry, the grand orient
of France.
The pyramid in Parc Monceau
is trivial, however,
compared to what the
Louvre Pyramid encodes.
President Francois Mitterrand
commissioned the Louvre Pyramid
and the adjacent
pyramid in Versailles
to be completed by 1989 for the
celebration of the bicentennial
of the French Revolution.
Mitterrand personally
selected architect, IM Pei,
without hosting a
design competition,
as would be expected for
such an important commission.
The modern pyramid's
metal armature
was designed to
support a lot of glass.
Wikipedia states that the
official brochure published
during construction cited
666 as its number of panes,
but then writes it off
as an urban legend,
because in actual
fact, the pyramid
contains a different
number of panes.
That didn't stop various
journalists at the time
from drumming up
quite a controversy
about the number of the beast,
and Mitterrand was jokingly
referred to as the
Sun King for a while.
However, I have indeed
found 666 rhombi
symbolized in the pyramid.
Why rhombi, you ask?
A rhombus can be made from
two conjoined equilateral
triangles.
The rhombus is the
masculine or linear element
inside the feminine curves
of the Vesica Pisces,
whose name means
vessel of the fish,
because the Christian fish
symbol emerges from it.
The rhombus is, therefore,
a sacred symbol.
Notice how each of the
larger rhombic frames
contains 36 rhombic
panes of glass.
As you can see, the number of
rhombic panes on a typical face
adds up to 153.
This is a very
interesting number
that has a mystical
Christian significance.
Do you remember the
square root of 153
being equal to the number
of moons in a year?
We learned that fact
by studying Stonehenge.
Here's a quote from
the New Testament
that entangles fish and
153 in a Christian net.
"Simon Peter went
up and drew the net
to land full of great
fishes, 150 and three,
and for all, there were so many,
yet was not the net broken."
This number of fish-- I mean,
why bother enumerating them--
has puzzled scholars
for centuries
and is an example
of how parables
in the Bible encrypt important
information in plain text.
Here's Jesus describing his
practice of hiding information
in symbols.
"He answered and said
unto them, 'Because it
is given unto you to
know the mysteries
of the kingdom of Heaven,
but to them, it is not given.
Therefore, I speak
to them in parables,
because they seeing see not,
and hearing they hear not,
neither do they understand.'"
Tabulating the
additional triangles
and converting them to
rhombi and then adding
the number of rhombic frames,
we get 166.5 symbolic rhombi
in a typical face, and
four such faces equals 666.
Let's look at the
actual Bible quote
and see what it tells us in
regard to the infamous number
of the beast.
"Here is wisdom.
Let him that hath understanding
count the number of the beast,
for it is the number
of man, and his number
is 600 threescore and six."
Why man is called
a beast should be
obvious by what humans
are doing to this planet's
natural environment.
We may bestial in our
an unenlightened state,
but this is beside
the point I'm making.
The beast here is
not Satan, but man.
In particular, the Louvre
Pyramid is about a man.
Robert Bauval had a stunning
realization described
in the book, "Talisman."
He realized the
historic core of Paris
is correlated with the temples
of Luxor and Karnak in Egypt.
Luxor and Karnak are
adjacent ancient temples.
Bauval observed that
the six-degree angle
between the axes
of Luxor and Karnak
match the six-degree
bend in the Louvre.
The temple of Luxor
is the one with
the embedded six-degree angle.
I went a step further and
laid the Luxor ground plan
over the Louvre and
the Tuileries Garden.
The Tuileries was
laid out by Le Notre
at the request of Louis XIV.
We see this direct
correlation only
when the temple
plan is mirrored.
Might the Sun King's
intention have been for Paris
to be the mirror of Luxor?
Validation that
the temple of Luxor
was used as a design
template is the fact
that the obelisk corrected
in the Place de la Concorde
is from the very
same temple of Luxor.
After the revolution,
the Luxor obelisk
replaced the guillotine in what
became known as the Place de la
Concorde.
In an outstanding
act of engineering,
the obelisk was erected
by the aforementioned Duke
of Orleans' son, who many years
after the 1789 revolution,
became the last king of France.
The important thing
to recognize here
is that the French obsession
with hermetic symbolism
passed through the revolution
completely unscathed.
In the early 20th century,
modern French alchemist,
Schwaller de Lubicz, lived
in Luxor for 15 years.
Out of his intensive study came
the book, "The Temple of Man,"
wherein he showed how
the Temple of Luxor
represents the body of a man.
Now we're really
on to something.
I see the head here, the
neck, the heart, all the way
to the small chambers
of the intestines here.
The obelisk is, of
course, his erect phallus.
The ancient Egyptians related
the cult of the phallus
with the dismemberment
of Osiris.
Next, I overlaid the most famous
depiction of the human body
ever made-- Leonardo da
Vinci's Vitruvian Man.
See how his leg follows
the bend in the scene?
These roads follow the
angle of his other leg,
and the Luxembourg Gardens
seem to parallel his arm.
Could the Vitruvian Man
be another hidden template
in the design of Paris?
If so, I suspect the
man of Paris is Osiris.
Thinking on this, I started
to see energy centers
in the parterres
of the Tuileries.
At first, I thought
they were chakras,
but their locations tell a
slightly different story.
In a normal state
of consciousness,
people don't see chakras.
However, as we
learned at Chartres,
chakras rows are part of the
architecture of the universe
we've been investigating.
If chakras exist on
another level of reality--
call it the etheric body
or aura, if you will-- then
their interface in
our everyday reality
is controlled by the endocrine
system in the physical body.
Why do we care?
Because stimulating and
balancing the endocrine
system can lead to
states of ecstasy using
more of the brain,
slowing the aging process,
attaining enlightenment,
and even experiencing
everlasting life,
as some believe.
I was able to pinpoint
gland locations in Paris
because of another observation.
Many famous public spaces have
axial streets pointing directly
to where the ductless glands
would be in the body of a man.
The Church of the Madeleine
and Palais Bourbon
form a cross-axis directly
in line with the obelisk
in La Place de la Concorde.
On one side, we have
Napoleon's Church
venerating Mary
Magdalene, who is
said to have started the royal
bloodline of the Son of God.
On the other side is
the Palais Bourbon
containing the lower
house of the Parliament
of France, known as
the National Assembly.
These two Roman styled
temples energize the gonads
in the body of Paris on either
side of his phallus centered
on the Axe Historique.
The gland most associated
with enlightened states
is, of course, the
pineal, which actually
looks like a tiny pine cone in
the center of the human brain.
This colossal pine cone is in
the courtyard of the Belvedere
in the Vatican, a
name which recalls
the affluent town of the same
name overlooking San Francisco.
The pine cone is flanked
by two peacocks, which
are ancient symbols
of Resurrection,
that predate Christianity.
Believe it or not, there
is an empty black coffin
I couldn't get a picture
of behind the colossal pine
cone that symbolizes the
death and rebirth of Osiris.
The pine cone in the
private courtyard
is actually a first
century bronze
that used to act as a fountain
in front of the Temple of Isis
in ancient Rome.
In the Renaissance, Sixtus
V built the library wing
that closed off the
courtyard, perhaps
in order to hide pagan
symbols not easily explained
by the Catholic church.
The pineal gland of
Paris marks one end point
of a line starting at the Paris
Observatory, whose construction
was incidentally
authorized by Louis XIV.
This axis passes directly
through the French Senate
and the Luxembourg Gardens.
This cosmic connection
to enlightenment
is not lost on me.
Also notable is the fact that
nothing aligns with the thymus
or throat chakra.
As the throat is associated
with speaking and communication,
it seems appropriate nothing
should energize this center
if secrecy is to be maintained.
Each of the other alignments
is an interesting case study
for further analysis.
Parc Monceau is right under
the Vitruvian Man's foot.
His outstretched leg
seems to point directly
at the rotunda building
where the gatekeeper lives.
The tiny rotunda was
designed by architect,
Claude Nicolas Ledoux, an
interesting figure to be sure.
Ledoux built 63 toll
barrier buildings
in the city wall built around
Paris in the Ancien regime
to collect taxes.
This tax wall was
universally hated
and was torn down
during the revolution.
When the Paris
metro was built, it
made sense to dig
up the city where
the extra space for the wall
had been, so metro lines 2 and 6
follow the tax wall boundary.
Only three of Ledoux's tax
structures remain today,
and the rotunda in Parc
Monceau is one of them.
I submit that it's no accident
that precisely these Ledoux
buildings were left intact.
We already know
about the rotunda,
but what is the significance
of these other two Ledoux
buildings?
They're all about
solar alignment.
The red line pointing
to the Rotunda de la
Vilette in Place
Stalingrad precisely
marks the azimuth of
summer solstice sunrise.
Look at how this water channel
continues the alignment.
Some other examples of this
alignment we've seen before
are the line connecting
the Vatican obelisk
with the obelisk in
Piazza del Popolo
and in the orientation
of Chartres Cathedral.
The green line pointing
to the Barriere d'Enfer,
or Gate of Hell, is oriented
appropriately due south.
It's called the Gate of Hell,
because Ledoux's pair of tax
collection buildings
are immediately
adjacent to the entrance
of the Paris catacombs.
This reminds me of
the phrase, nothing
is sure as death and taxes.
The yellow line points
to the Trocadero
in the azimuth
equinoctial sunset.
Trocadero marks the beginning
of the white axis running
through the Eiffel Tower and
the Ecole Militaire complex.
The white line connects
Trocadero to the Gate of Hell,
but has no astronomical
meaning as far as I can tell.
The blue line starts
at the obelisk
at Place Fontenoy, which
is right on the white axis
in front of UNESCO.
This non-Egyptian
obelisk commemorates
a battle that took
place in the year 841,
but the obelisk was
erected here in 1860.
The blue line is
precisely the azimuth
of winter solstice sunset.
Maybe you're wondering where
all the colored lines converge.
Their common center is
precisely at the entrance
to the Tuileries Garden,
but why is it there?
Before the revolution,
the Tuileries
was a royal palace that closed
off the Louvre Courtyard.
The center point of
the solar alignments
lies directly in front of the
entrance to the Royal Palace.
The palace was destroyed in
the chaos of the revolution,
but the alignments remain.
Just like the Great
Pyramid of Giza,
the Louvre Pyramid
will yield more secrets
upon further analysis.
The plan of the Louvre Pyramid
and the fountains surrounding
it is itself a sacred diagram.
Referred to as the sacred
cut of ad quadratum,
the diagram was traditionally
used as an astrological house
chart in centuries past.
Overlaid is the house
chart Johannes Kepler
made for General
Wallenstein in 1608.
Yes, that's the same Kepler
who discovered the three
laws of planetary motion
that keep telecommunications
satellites in orbit today.
Astrology is actually
very serious business.
The Louvre Pyramid
acts as entrance
to the world's most
visited museum.
Recall how I overlaid
the Vitruvian Man only
after analyzing
the pyramid itself
in finding the mark of
the beast encoded within.
The Vitruvian Man's mouth
corresponds appropriately
with this entrance, so the
next time you enter the Louvre,
ponder its symbolism.
You are entering the
mouth of the beast.
Look at what is aligned
with this so-called mouth--
the Palais Royal.
Central to French
history, the Palais Royal
is where many generations
of royals lived.
Louis XIV grew up
there, for example.
The Duke of Orleans
later owned the palace.
I was extremely surprised
to recognize the five
by 12 Jerusalem rectangle,
precisely framed
in the proportions of the
Royal Palace's court of honor.
The palace garden's
two famous lawns
symbolize the two holiest spots
in Christianity and Judaism.
There is clearly a
royal French connection
to the ancient mysteries.
Royal of royals, Louis
XIV's reign of 72 years
was longer and
arguably more powerful
than any other king
in European history.
Architect of the Vatican's St.
Peter's Square, Gian Lorenzo
Bernini allegorically
portrayed Louis XIV
as Alexander the Great
in the famous equestrian
statue located in front
of the Louvre Pyramid.
This statue marks the
beginning and faces
in the direction
of what is called
the Axe Historique of Paris.
The historical axis runs
from the equestrian statue
of Louis XIV, under Napoleon's
Arc de Triomphe du Carrousel,
through the Tuileries,
over the Luxor obelisk,
under the Arc de Triomphe,
all the way along the Champs
Elysee to its end point within
the Grand Arch in La Defense.
French Egyptologist,
Jean-Marcel Humbert,
had this to say about
the Axe Historique.
"I have not verified
this, but it
is said that the great
axis is a Masonic alignment
and that this is not
the result of chance.
It is known that the
Freemasons find their origins
in ancient Egypt."
I have verified that the
Axe Historique is, indeed,
aligned to the heliacal
rising of Sirius,
just as is the older Notre
Dame on the Ile de la
Cite, whose axis parallels
the Champs Elysee.
Hancock and Bauval traced
the origins of this alignment
to the fact that
Notre Dame was likely
built over an ancient
Roman temple of Isis.
Notre Dame, or Our Lady, is
therefore Mary veiling Isis.
Perhaps even more amazing,
Hancock and Bauval
show the word "Paris" comes
from the melding together
of the words, Pharia-Isis.
Pharia, or Pharos in
Greek, is the island
where the wondrous
lighthouse of Alexandria was
and the center of Isis
worship in antiquity.
Now let's imagine taking in an
enlightening ride with the Sun
King along the axis he laid out,
which was greatly embellished
with hidden symbolism
by Napoleon, Mitterrand,
and many others on up
to the present day.
For the first destination,
we must travel underground
both under the Earth's surface
and below public consciousness.
La Pyramide in Versailles is
an underground atrium space
surrounded by
fashionable boutiques.
The downward facing pyramid
is the symbolic opposite
to the famous museum entrance.
As the upward pointing
pyramid symbolizes a man,
the inverted pyramid must,
therefore, represent a woman.
In alchemy, the symbols
for fire and water
are upward and downward
facing triangles.
This polarity is
also represented
in Western mysticism
as sword and chalice.
The chalice in question is,
of course, the holy grail.
Going with the holy
blood, holy grail thesis,
it's fitting that
Dan Brown chose
to portray the location of
the Tomb of Mary Magdalene
right here under the
pyramid in Versailles
at the end of "The
Da Vinci Code."
If the star of
David is the symbol
of the union of male and female,
then the star tetrahedron
is its 3D equivalent.
Drunvalo Melchizedek's
volumes on the ancient secret
of the flower of life show
the human energy field,
or Mer-Ka-Ba, as
it's known, takes
the form of a star
tetrahedron, male and female
being inversions of each other.
On a higher level,
Richard Hoagland
has shown how star tetrahedron
geometry is implicated
in hyper-dimensional
energy outflows coming
from planetary cores
in our solar system.
When a star tetrahedron is
inscribed within a sphere,
its points touch the sphere's
surface at 19 and 1/2 degrees
north and south latitude.
On Earth, one of the
tetrahedral points
is on the Mauna Loa
volcano in Hawaii,
which is actually the
largest mountain on Earth
if measured from the sea floor.
Similar energy outflows
occur at 19 and 1/2 degrees
north or south on Mars'
Olympus Mons, which
is the largest mountain
in the solar system,
and Jupiter's great red spot,
and Neptune's great dark spot.
Explaining these
outflows requires
a four-dimensional
model of physics,
where energy is gated from
the sun to the planetary cores
through hyperspace.
Energy transduced by
each planetary body
appears to us as heat in 3D.
Emerging from the most stable
of all three dimensional forms,
the star tetrahedron.
The simplest way of
describing of physics that's
based on the same geometry for
both planetary and human energy
fields would be as above, so
below, the hermetic motto.
Next on our tour is
the Arc de Triomphe du
Carrousel built by Napoleon.
When you stand directly
under the central arch,
your body symbolically
resonates with the sun.
The name, Carrousel, suggests
planets revolving about you.
The 12 hedges representing
constellations
of the zodiac radiate
like rays of the sun
from exactly where
you are standing.
In addition to the official
allegory of peace being guided
by Napoleon's
victories, the chariot
drawn by four horses
on top of the arch
could just as well be read
as the ancient depiction
of Helios drawn by four horses.
The oval that
terminates the hedges
symbolizes Kepler's
scientific discovery
that planets have
elliptical orbits,
and the square hedges must be
the two foci of the ellipse.
Napoleon was most obviously
interested in correlating
the human body with the sun.
Le Notre laid out
the Tuileries Garden
at the request of the Sun King.
The garden's
proportions, fountains,
and parterre patterns amazingly
fit the Jerusalem rectangle.
See how the fountains
are tangent to the Xes?
The octagonal
fountain, therefore,
corresponds with the
Dome of the Rock,
and the round fountain
with the Holy Sepulchre.
Paris is another new Jerusalem.
When you train yourself
to see hermetic symbolism,
it starts appearing all
over Paris in plain sight.
It can be a bit overwhelming.
Two equestrian statues flank
the entrance to the Tuileries
from the Place de la Concorde.
Her exposed breasts suggest
this goddess might be Isis.
The other rider is Mercury
holding the staff of Osiris,
or caduceus, which
has become the symbol
of the medical profession.
Here's another possible Isis in
the garden and another Mercury.
This golden boy is
the genie of Paris
atop the July
Column commemorating
the Revolution of 1830.
The genie is Mercury himself.
The first time
hermetic symbolism
had come completely out
into the open in France
was during the 1789 revolution.
Here's the Declaration
of the Rights
of Man depicting the all-seeing
eye of the supreme being.
Incidentally, this
design was influenced
by Benjamin Franklin,
who is something
of a Freemasonic celebrity
in Paris at the time.
Franklin helped
design the great seal
of the United States, which
bears the same all-seeing eye.
In time for the celebration of
the heliacal rising of Sirius
in 1793, this fountain was
erected in the Place de la
Bastille.
The famous artist,
Jacques-Louis David,
sculpted the Fountain
of Regeneration
with Isis even wearing
an Egyptian headdress.
The water streaming
out of her breasts
recalls the image of Saint
Bernard de Clairvaux receiving
milk from the Virgin.
And how can we
forget this view--
the Eiffel Tower as
phallus of Osiris
with the Statue of Liberty
replica on the Seine
as his sister bride?
The largest square in Paris
is up next on the Isis axis.
Believe it or not, La
Place de la Concorde
has an area of precisely
86,400 square meters.
Remember the 864-foot
high Transamerica Pyramid
and the 864,000 feet from
Stonehenge to Silbury Hill?
You see, it doesn't
matter if we're
talking metric or imperial units
with shifted decimal places.
What matters are the numbers.
The fact is the sun's
diameter is 864,000 miles,
and there are 86,400
seconds in a mean solar day.
The area of the Place thus
confirms it as a solar symbol.
The cars are likened
to planets wandering
around the elliptical
traffic circle.
The twin fountains symbolize
the watery galactic midplane
of the Milky Way, just as they
do in front of the Vatican.
That makes the Champs
Elysee the ecliptic.
Le Notre designed La Place
de l'Etoile, where the Arc de
Triomphe stands today.
Standing at the center
of the place of the star,
the ceremonial arch is read
literally as a stargate.
12 streets radiating
outward represent a zodiac.
The triumphal arch
originally honored
the warriors who fought for
France in the Napoleonic Wars,
and it later became the
Tomb of the Unknown Soldier.
The eternal flame
under the arch might
be another solar reference.
There is certainly a lot of
sun worship going on in Paris.
Napoleon invaded
Egypt in 1798, and not
even counting the Egyptians,
the French death toll
came to more than 20,000 souls.
After France's great
defeat, Napoleon
was asked why he decided in the
first place to invade Egypt.
He said, "I came to draw
attention and bring back
the interest of Europe to the
center of the ancient world."
While the campaign was raging,
Napoleon spent a night alone
in the Great Pyramid, and when
asked about his experience,
he supposedly said,
"You wouldn't believe me
if I told you."
Moving on toward the
strange attractor
at the end of the
axis, we finally
conclude our journey
through space and time
at Le Grande Arche.
Contemporaneous with the
Louvre Pyramid, the Grand Arch
was also built at the request
of President Mitterrand.
This time, Mitterrand held a
national design competition,
but personally selected
architect, Johann Otto von
Spreckelsen in the end anyway.
Unfortunately, Spreckelsen
died before the project
was completed.
The location of the Grand Arch
has a special relationship
to the Arc de Triomphe, the
Luxor obelisk, and the Arc de
Triomphe du Carrousel.
All four monuments are
spaced in such a way
to create this approximate
doubling pattern,
suggesting musical octaves.
In addition, the Arc de Triomphe
is roughly double the size
of the Arc de
Triomphe du Carrousel,
and the Grand Arch is about
double the size of the Arc de
Triomphe.
In the scaling of
these three arches,
I see three stargates
representing
the human, planetary,
and stellar bodies,
just as we saw symbolized
with cubes in London and DC.
Notre Dame Cathedral
fits perfectly
inside the Grand Arch.
I'm guessing this
is no accident.
A tune in three
octaves, if you will,
I call it the symphony
of the stargates.
The dimensions of the
monumental structure
are cubic with edge length
measuring approximately
110 meters, or 360 feet.
Researcher Jim Allison
realized that 360 feet is also
precisely equal to 210
Egyptian royal cubits,
and I see that the office
windows inside the arch
are arranged in groups
of 210, providing
validation of this metrology.
The exterior side's symbolic
measure depicts 22 over seven
in meters.
22 over seven is, of course,
an approximation of pi.
12 columns internally
support the structure,
and a zodiac is literally
depicted in the basement floor,
making the arch yet another
form of sun worship.
The sides of the
monumental arch actually
contain some 40,000 square
meters of office space.
Multi-purpose rooms in
the basement measure
400 square meters each.
These numbers got me thinking.
40,000 and 400 are very
interesting numbers.
To appreciate this, let's
start with the metric system.
The metric system was originally
defined by measuring the Earth.
The original prime meridian
passed through the Paris
Observatory and continued
all the way around the Earth.
This circumference was
defined as 40,000 kilometers
in the 18th century,
and this served
to define the metric system.
There are 121 documented
bronze medallions marked Arago
after the French
astronomer embedded
in streets and sidewalks
in a line crossing Paris.
These medallions marked the
line of the Paris prime meridian
that was used in
France for 200 years.
This line touches the corner of
one of the Louvre's satellite
pyramids.
Perhaps, this is why the
smaller pyramids are there.
The meter is the basic unit
of length in science today.
The meter's definition move from
being based in earth measure
to a prototype bar to
being circularly defined
in terms of the speed of
light, which is itself measured
in meters per second.
Christopher Knight and
Alan Butler's book,
"Who Built the Moon?"
is really an eye opener.
Although I don't agree
with their thesis
that the moon is an
artificial satellite,
they have discovered numbers
relating sun, moon, and Earth
that are too perfect to be
the product of random chance.
For example, consider
a solar eclipse.
When one happens, the moon
completely covers the sun disk.
The only reason
this can occur so
precisely is because the moon
is exactly 400 times smaller
than the sun and happens to be
400 times closer than the sun
during the eclipse.
The Earth also turns 400
times faster than the moon.
The odds of these three
seemingly unrelated
characteristics would all
converge on the number 400
is literally astronomical.
As I already mentioned,
the Axe Historique
is aligned with the
heliacal rising of Sirius,
known as the Star of Isis.
But the Grand Arch is turned
approximately six degrees
with respect to this axis.
This is, of course, no accident.
Everything has a purpose.
Can you imagine the
mind-boggling planning that
went into the Grand Arch alone?
Groundbreaking
architectural design
that ties together layer upon
layer of hidden symbolism
completing the hermetic
masterpiece that is Paris.
Jim Allison has found what
the Grand Arch is pointing to.
Are you ready for this?
It points to the birthplace
of Isis in Dendera, Egypt.
This tiny unassuming temple out
in back of the larger Hathor
Temple is known as the
traditional birthplace of Isis.
The location of the small cube
within the larger enclosure
matches the azimuth where
the Grand Arch is facing.
Remember that the
heliacal rising of Sirius
was the basis of the
ancient Egyptian calendar.
Well, here is where
all that started.
This is where ancient
Egyptian priests
saw her bright star rising
just before the dawn,
signaling the beginning
of a new year.
Isn't it amazing that the
Champs Elysee and Pennsylvania
Avenue share the same
astronomical orientation
with this tiny backwater
in modern Egypt?
Backwater it may be today,
but symbolically, it's
the holiest place
in the cult of Isis.
Napoleon came here
and had a master Mason
cut out this massive ceiling
from the adjacent temple
and ship it back to Paris.
It's called the Dendera
Zodiac and is now
suspended in the Louvre.
As you can see,
the Dendera Zodiac
has octagram star symmetry.
More than a zodiac,
it is a planisphere
showing the whole cosmology
as seen through Egyptian eyes.
Another Louvre ceiling that
gets to the essence of things
is Francois-Edouard Picot's
Study and Genius Reveal Ancient
Egypt and Greece.
Hancock and Bauval
recognized the importance
of this hermetic work in
their book, "Talisman."
The painting allows
the viewer to see
Isis unveiled for Athena.
This unveiling references
Plutarch's first century
depiction of her temple at
Sais, where it was inscribed,
"I am all that has been
and is and shall be.
My veil no mortal
hath ever raised."
The term "genius" in
the title is the epithet
of the divine
messenger, Mercury, who
is introducing Athena to Isis.
I think the Western world
exemplified by Athena
is being introduced to the
older stream of knowledge
coming out of Egypt.
As I can attest, the
term "study" in the title
refers to the intensive
research required
to uncover the deep Egyptian
connections that the elite is
so clearly obsessed with.
Returning to Paris, let's
look at the Grand Arch
with fresh eyes.
Remember that
everything has a reason.
The Grand Arch is in La Defense,
the modern section of Paris.
Why?
We need a modern
mathematical understanding
to perceive its deepest
symbol and to recognize it
for what it truly is-- a
three-dimensional shadow
of a hypercube.
Come again?
What is a hypercube?
If the square is
2D, the cube is 3D,
and the hypercube is
the 4D equivalent.
Here's what a cube looks
like when it's being rotated.
Here's what rotating
a hypercube looks
like in three-dimensional
projection.
The fourth dimension
is hard to imagine,
because it's
literally beyond us.
You might be interested to learn
that four spatial dimensions
were known far before the
birth of modern science.
Here is what Saint
Bernard de Clairvaux
wrote to his former disciple,
who became Pope Eugene III.
"What is God?
He is length, width,
height, and depth."
There are four
spatial terms used.
Bernard described the fourth
dimension in the 12th century.
Saint Paul also
described four dimensions
in the first century.
"That Christ may
dwell in your hearts
by faith, that ye being
rooted and grounded in love
may be able to comprehend with
all saints what is the breadth
and length and depth and height,
and to know the love of Christ,
which passeth knowledge
that ye may be filled
with all the fullness of God."
Four centuries
before Paul, Plato
even described higher
dimensional reality
in his allegory of the cave,
which goes something like this.
"We are prisoners
chained in a cave
and sit facing a blank wall.
There is a fire
outside the cave,
and unseen people are
passing in front of it.
We see shadows on
the wall and mistake
this illusion for reality."
I think we are kept in the
dark about a great many things.
Notice how the hypercube
shadow in 3D projection looks
like a cube within a cube.
This structure is fractal,
meaning the same pattern
repeats at different scales.
We've seen things like this
before in cities, buildings,
and art.
Consider the fractal-like
city of London within greater
London, Vatican
City within Rome,
and the United
Nations headquarters
within New York City.
On the scale of a
building, take a look
at the Dome of
the Chain standing
immediately outside
the Dome of the Rock.
It's the same structure repeated
in a smaller scale, hinting
at a higher dimensional
connection for those who have
eyes to read the symbolism.
Examples from art
are Pomodoro's series
of golden spheres within
spheres scattered strategically
in the Vatican, UN
headquarters, museums in DC,
and San Francisco.
The sacred Egyptian
cubit is a unit
of measure reserved for
measuring the Earth.
One sacred cubit is
equal to 6 over 5
raised to the fourth
power in English feet.
Think about it.
Raising to the fourth power
means the sacred cubit
is literally a hypercubit.
Michele and Heath
have found there
are 10 million hypercubits
in the Earth's polar radius
and 63 million hypercubits in
its meridian circumference.
Now these amazingly round
numbers measure our planet
with remarkable accuracy.
How can this be?
Some physicists
believe the universe
is made of 10 dimensional
superstrings, but six of them
have curled up into
unimaginably small size.
The four remaining dimensions
express the architecture
of the universe.
Recall how I saw in the
union of both Louvre pyramids
the knowledge of
how energy flows
from the sun through hyperspace
into planetary bodies.
In addition, the
Earth is measured
by a hypercubit, whose
edge length of 6 over 5
relates macrocosm to microcosm.
The Earth is therefore a
hyper-dimensional object,
even though with our
normal perception,
we experience both the Earth and
ourselves as being only three
dimensional.
Another projection of the
hypercube into two dimensions
looks like this.
Do you see the
octagram star within?
This is where it all comes from.
The sun is a hypercube.
Recall Metatron's cube.
Now that we understand
the Grand Arch,
we perceive Metatron's cube
as Metatron's hypercube.
This 4D solar
symbol appropriately
contains the 3D star tetrahedron
and the 2D star of David.
We see now why these
sacred diagrams are both
called stars-- because they are
projections of our sun, which
is itself a star.
To make all of this
four-dimensional geometry
easier to understand, it helps
to bring it down a level.
When folding a squared
gives you a line,
unfolding a cardboard
cube gives you a cross.
Unfolding a hypercube gives
you a cross made of cubes.
Salvador Dali started
with this idea
when he painted the
Corpus Hypercubus.
He depicts the crucifixion, yes,
but what is he really saying?
Corpus Hypercubus is the
ascended body as hypercube.
In Analytic Cubism,
the art movement
that anticipated
Dali's surrealism,
Picasso and Braque
depicted objects
from a multitude of
viewpoints in an effort
to see all sides at once.
Of all the myriad
forms in existence,
why did they choose a cube to
symbolize their art movement?
Could these cubists have been
privy to secret knowledge that
inspired their attempt to
paint the fourth dimension,
or did they follow unconscious
synchromystic inspiration?
Food for thought.
So now we have the
human body, the Earth,
and the sun symbolized as
hypercubes, three cubes
if you want to use a 3D symbol.
So which is it?
It's actually all of the above.
The human, planetary,
and stellar scales
resonate as a fractal
structure within
the holographic universe.
In simpler terms,
as above, so below.
Metatron's hypercube,
as Enoch's hypercube,
reveals the cosmic man.
Enoch's triangle had
the ineffable name
of God written on it.
Here is that name
in Hebrew, which
is a language read
from right to left.
Standing the letters
up, we see the depiction
of a man made in God's image.
The cosmic man is Plato's world
soul, alchemy's Anima Mundi,
and the Kabbalah's Adam Kadmon.
Here is a piece of my own
artwork showing Adam Kadmon
emerging from the tree of life.
If the human body is a
temple, then this temple
is much more vast
and interconnected
than we ever imagined.
The human energy form resonates
with the esoteric architecture
of the universe.
What we know as the
history of civilization
is only a very small
part of our past.
There is something extraordinary
about our beginnings not
written about in history books.
The oldest surviving temples
encode an understanding
of Earth, moon, and sun
that is, in some ways,
more advanced than
modern science.
To catch up with
ancient knowledge,
a broad interdisciplinary
approach is clearly indicated.
Specialists in art history,
archeology, architecture,
philosophy, semiotics,
mathematics, physics,
and many others will need
to cooperate in new ways.
By seriously studying Stonehenge
and the Great Pyramid,
we've seen how people living
at the dawn of civilization
possessed the
ability to accurately
measure the size of
the Earth and to survey
long distances with a precision
rivaling GPS satellites.
Logically, our
civilization must therefore
be a legacy from an
earlier civilization.
Whether this was Atlantis and/or
an off-world civilization,
I cannot presently
say with certainty.
The rediscovery
of the importance
of number, geometry,
music, and astronomy
should rekindle interest in
ancient Egyptian knowledge
passed down to us
by philosophers,
such as Pythagoras and Plato.
Understanding how the macrocosm
and microcosm are related
through the art
of sacred geometry
and the act of
measuring structures
and the Earth is a thing
of profound beauty.
Relating sixes to fives by
drawing hexagons and pentagons
in the landscape or by
measuring with Egyptian units
are brilliant examples of
this ancient science at work.
Finding Pythagorean
triangles, five
by 12 rectangles, pyramids,
octagrams, enneagrams,
and zodiacs encoded in much of
the world's great architecture
and urban design
exposes an obsession
with ancient symbolism
spanning the centuries.
The designers take
this symbolism
so seriously that
there must really
be power in ancient knowledge.
Putting this story
together has been
by far the most challenging
and satisfying project
of my professional life.
I hope you've enjoyed it, and
I invite your participation
in uncovering more
secrets in plain sight.
This is Scott Onstott,
and I thank you
for sharing my journey.